# Declarations vs. Expressions

There are actually two literal forms of functions. The first is a _function declaration_, which begins with the `function` keyword and includes the name of the function immediately following it

```js
function add(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
}
```

The second form is a _function expression_, which doesn’t require a name after `function`. These functions are considered anonymous because the function object itself has no name. Instead, function expressions are typically referenced via a variable or property, as in this expression:
```js
var add = function(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
};
```

Although these two forms are quite similar, they differ in a very important way. Function declarations are _hoisted_ to the top of the context (either the function in which the declaration occurs or the global scope) when the code is executed. That means you can actually define a function after it is used in code without generating an error. For example:
```js
var result = add(5, 5);

function add(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
}

-------------------------------

// how the JavaScript engine interprets the code
function add(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
}

var result = add(5, 5);
```

# Functions as Values

Because JavaScript has first-class functions, you can use them just as you do any other objects. You can assign them to variables, add them to objects, pass them to other functions as arguments, and return them from functions. Basically, you can use a function anywhere you would use any other reference value. This makes JavaScript functions incredibly powerful.

When you keep in mind that functions are objects, a lot of the behavior starts to make sense.

# Parameters

Another unique aspect of JavaScript functions is that you can pass any number of parameters to any function without causing an error. That’s because function parameters are actually stored as an array-like structure called `arguments`. Just like a regular JavaScript array, `arguments` can grow to contain any number of values. The values are referenced via numeric indices, and there is a `length` property to determine how many values are present.

The `arguments` object is automatically available inside any function. This means named parameters in a function exist mostly for convenience and don’t actually limit the number of arguments that a function can accept.

On the other hand, JavaScript doesn’t ignore the named parameters of a function either. The number of arguments a function expects is stored on the function’s `length` property

Here’s a simple example using `arguments` and function arity; note that the number of arguments passed to the function has no effect on the reported arity:

```js
function reflect(value) {
    return value;
}

console.log(reflect("Hi!"));        // "Hi!"
console.log(reflect("Hi!", 25));    // "Hi!"
console.log(reflect.length);        // 1

reflect = function() {
    // Array.isArray(arguments) : output is always false
    return [...arguments];
};

console.log(reflect("Hi!"));        // "Hi!"
console.log(reflect("Hi!", 25));    // "Hi!"
console.log(reflect.length);        // 0
```


# Overloading

Most object-oriented languages support _function overloading_, which is the ability of a single function to have multiple _signatures_. A function signature is made up of the function name plus the number and type of parameters the function expects. Thus, a single function can have one signature that accepts a single string argument and another that accepts two numeric arguments. The language determines which version of a function to call based on the arguments that are passed in.

JavaScript functions don’t actually have signatures. A lack of function signatures also means a lack of function overloading. Look at what happens when you try to declare two functions with the same name:

```js
function sayMessage(message) {
    console.log(message);
}

function sayMessage() {
    console.log("Default message");
}

sayMessage("Hello!");       // outputs "Default message"

----------------------------------
// It helps to think about this situation using objects:
var sayMessage = new Function("message", "console.log(message);");

sayMessage = new Function("console.log(\"Default message\");");

sayMessage("Hello!");       // outputs "Default message"

```


# Object Methods

When a property value is actually a function, the property is considered a method. You can add a method to an object in the same way that you would add a property. For example, in the following code, the `person` variable is assigned an object literal with a `name` property and a method called `sayName`.

```js
var person = {
    name: "Nicholas",
    sayName: function() {
        console.log(person.name);
        // or
        console.log(this.name);
    }
};

person.sayName();       // outputs "Nicholas"
```

#### The this Object

You may have noticed something strange in the previous example. The `sayName()` method references `person.name` directly, which creates tight coupling between the method and the object. This is problematic for a number of reasons. First, if you change the variable name, you also need to remember to change the reference to that name in the method. Second, this sort of tight coupling makes it difficult to use the same function for different objects. Fortunately, JavaScript has a way around this issue.

Every scope in JavaScript has a `this` object that represents the calling object for the function. In the global scope, `this` represents the global object (`window` in web browsers). When a function is called while attached to an object, the value of `this` is equal to that object by default. So, instead of directly referencing an object inside a method, you can reference `this` instead

```js
function sayNameForAll() {
    console.log(this.name);
}

var person1 = {
    name: "Nicholas",
    sayName: sayNameForAll
};

var person2 = {
    name: "Greg",
    sayName: sayNameForAll
};

var name = "Michael";

person1.sayName();      // outputs "Nicholas"
person2.sayName();      // outputs "Greg"

sayNameForAll();        // outputs "Michael"
```

#### Changing this

The ability to use and manipulate the `this` value of functions is key to good object-oriented programming in JavaScript. Functions can be used in many different contexts, and they need to be able to work in each situation. Even though `this` is typically assigned automatically, you can change its value to achieve different goals. There are three function methods that allow you to change the value of `this`.
- The call() Method
- The apply() Method
- The bind() Method

```js
function sayNameForAll(label) {
    console.log(label + ":" + this.name);
}

var person1 = {
    name: "Nicholas"
};

var person2 = {
    name: "Greg"
};

var name = "Michael";

sayNameForAll.call(this, "global");        // outputs "global:Michael"
sayNameForAll.call(person1, "person1");    // outputs "person1:Nicholas"
sayNameForAll.call(person2, "person2");    // outputs "person2:Greg"

---------------------

sayNameForAll.apply(this, ["global"]);      // outputs "global:Michael"
sayNameForAll.apply(person1, ["person1"]);  // outputs "person1:Nicholas"
sayNameForAll.apply(person2, ["person2"]);  // outputs "person2:Greg"

---------------------

  // create a function just for person1
❶ var sayNameForPerson1 = sayNameForAll.bind(person1);
  sayNameForPerson1("person1");       // outputs "person1:Nicholas"

  // create a function just for person2
❷ var sayNameForPerson2 = sayNameForAll.bind(person2, "person2");
  sayNameForPerson2();                // outputs "person2:Greg"

  // attaching a method to an object doesn't change 'this'
❸ person2.sayName = sayNameForPerson1;
  person2.sayName("person2");         // outputs "person2:Nicholas"
```

##### Summary
Because functions are objects, there is a `Function` constructor. You can create new functions with the `Function` constructor, but this isn’t generally recommended because it can make your code harder to understand and debugging much more difficult. That said, you will likely run into its usage from time to time in situations where the true form of the function isn’t known until runtime.

You need a good grasp of functions to understand how object- oriented programming works in JavaScript. Because JavaScript has no concept of a class, functions and other objects are all you have to work with to achieve aggregation and inheritance.

---

See also: https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/the-principles-of/9781457185304/ch02.html
