# Private and Privileged Members

All object properties in JavaScript are public, and there’s no explicit way to indicate that a property shouldn’t be accessed from outside a particular object. At some point, however, you might not want data to be public. One way to avoid this is by using naming conventions. For example, it’s quite common to prefix properties with an underscore (such as `this._name`) when they are not intended to be public. However, there are ways of hiding data that don’t rely on convention and are therefore more “bulletproof” in preventing the modification of private information. 

### The Module Pattern

**The _module pattern_ is an object-creation pattern designed to create singleton objects with private data**. The basic approach is to use an _immediately invoked function expression (IIFE)_ that returns an object. An IIFE is a function expression that is defined and then called immediately to produce a result. That function expression can contain any number of local variables that aren’t accessible from outside that function. Because the returned object is defined within that function, the object’s methods have access to the data. (All objects defined within the IIFE have access to the same local variables.) Methods that access private data in this way are called _privileged_ methods

```js
var yourObject = (function() {

  // private data variables

  return {
	  // public methods and properties
  };
}());

var person = (function() {
var age = 25;

return {
 name: "Nicholas",
 getAge: function() {
	  return age;
  },
 growOlder: function() {
	  age++;
  }
};

}());

console.log(person.name);       // "Nicholas"
console.log(person.getAge());   // 25

person.age = 100;
console.log(person.getAge());   // 25

person.growOlder();
console.log(person.getAge());   // 26
```
The module pattern allows you to use regular variables as de facto object properties that aren’t exposed publicly. You accomplish this by creating closure functions as object methods. Closures are simply functions that access data outside their own scope.

### Private Members for Constructors

The module pattern is great for defining individual objects that have private properties, but what about custom types that also require their own private properties? You can use a pattern that’s similar to the module pattern inside the constructor to create instance-specific private data

```js
  function Person(name) {
      // define a variable only accessible inside of the Person constructor
      var age = 25;

      this.name = name;

❶     this.getAge = function() {
          return age;
      };

❷     this.growOlder = function() {
          age++;
      };
   }

   var person = new Person("Nicholas");

   console.log(person.name);       // "Nicholas"
   console.log(person.getAge());   // 25

   person.age = 100;
   console.log(person.getAge());   // 25

   person.growOlder();
   console.log(person.getAge());   // 26
```
As discussed in [Chapter 4](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/the-principles-of/9781457185304/ch04.html "Chapter 4. Constructors and Prototypes"), placing methods on an object instance is less efficient than doing so on the prototype, but this is the only approach possible when you want private, instance-specific data.
If you want private data to be shared across all instances (as if it were on the prototype), you can use a hybrid approach that looks like the module pattern but uses a constructor:

```js
var Person = (function() {

      // everyone shares the same age
❶     var age = 25;

❷     function InnerPerson(name) {
          this.name = name;
      }

      InnerPerson.prototype.getAge = function() {
          return age;
      };

      InnerPerson.prototype.growOlder = function() {
          age++;
      };

      return InnerPerson;

  }());
  var person1 = new Person("Nicholas");
  var person2 = new Person("Greg");

  console.log(person1.name);      // "Nicholas"
  console.log(person1.getAge());  // 25

  console.log(person2.name);      // "Greg"
  console.log(person2.getAge());  // 25

  person1.growOlder();
  console.log(person1.getAge());  // 26
  console.log(person2.getAge());  // 26
```

##### Summary:
There are many different ways to create and compose objects in JavaScript. While JavaScript does not include the formal concept of private properties, you can create data or functions that are accessible only from within an object. For singleton objects, you can use the module pattern to hide data from the outside world. You can use an immediately invoked function expression (IIFE) to define local variables and functions that are accessible only by the newly created object. Privileged methods are methods on the object that have access to private data. You can also create constructors that have private data by either defining variables in the constructor function or by using an IIFE to create private data that is shared among all instances.

# Mixins

Although pseudoclassical inheritance and prototypal inheritance are used frequently in JavaScript, there is also a type of pseudoinheritance accomplished through mixins. _Mixins_ occur when one object acquires the properties of another without modifying the prototype chain. The first object (a _receiver_) actually receives the properties of the second object (the _supplier_) by copying those properties directly. Traditionally, you create mixins using a function such as this:

```js
function mixin1(receiver, supplier) {
    for (var property in supplier) {
        if (supplier.hasOwnProperty(property)) {
            receiver[property] = supplier[property]
        }
    }

    return receiver;
}

// want accessor properties to be copied over as accessor properties
function mixin2(receiver, supplier) {
 Object.keys(supplier).forEach(function(property) {
	  var descriptor = Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(supplier, property);
 Object.defineProperty(receiver, property, descriptor);
});

  return receiver;
}

var person = mixin(new EventTarget(), {

  get name() {
	  return "Nicholas"
  },

  sayName: function() {
	  console.log(this.name);
	  this.fire({ type: "namesaid", name: name });
  }
});

console.log(person.name);       // "Nicholas"

person.name = "Greg";
console.log(person.name);       // "Nicholas"
```

The `mixin()` function accepts two arguments: the receiver and the supplier. The goal of the function is to copy all enumerable properties from the supplier onto the receiver. You accomplish this using a `for-in` loop that iterates over the properties in `supplier` and then assigns the value of that property to a property of the same name on `receiver`

Keep in mind that this is a shallow copy, so if a property contains an object, then both the supplier and the receiver will be pointing to the same object. This pattern is used frequently for adding new behaviors to JavaScript objects that already exist on other objects.

##### Summary: 
Mixins are a powerful way to add functionality to objects while avoiding inheritance. A mixin copies properties from one object to another so that the receiving object gains functionality without inheriting from the supplying object. Unlike inheritance, mixins do not allow you to identify where the capabilities came from after the object is created. For this reason, mixins are best used with data properties or small pieces of functionality. Inheritance is still preferable when you want to obtain more functionality and know where that functionality came from.


# Scope-Safe Constructors

Because all constructors are just functions, you can call them without using the `new` operator and therefore affect the value of `this`. Doing so can yield unexpected results, as `this` ends up coerced to the global object in nonstrict mode, or the constructor throws an error in strict mode

```js
  function Person(name) {
      this.name = name;
  }

  Person.prototype.sayName = function() {
      console.log(this.name);
  };

❶ var person1 = Person("Nicholas");           // note: missing "new"

  console.log(person1 instanceof Person);     // false
  console.log(typeof person1);                // "undefined"
  console.log(name);                          // "Nicholas"
```

In this case, `name` is created as a global variable because the `Person` constructor is called without `new` ❶. Keep in mind that this code is running in nonstrict mode, as leaving out `new` would throw an error in strict mode

Many built-in constructors, such as `Array` and `RegExp`, also work without `new` because they are written to be _scope safe_. A scope-safe constructor can be called with or without `new` and returns the same type of object in either case.

When `new` is called with a function, the newly created object represented by `this` is already an instance of the custom type represented by the constructor. So you can use `instanceof` to determine whether `new` was used in the function call:
```js
function Person(name) {
    if (this instanceof Person) {
        // called with "new"
    } else {
        // called without "new"
    }
}
```

Using a pattern like this lets you control what a function does based on whether it’s called with `new` or without. You may want to treat each circumstance differently, but you’ll often want the function to behave the same way (frequently, to protect against accidental omission of `new` ).
```js
function Person(name) {
    if (this instanceof Person) {
        this.name = name;
    } else {
        return new Person(name);
    }
}
```

Creating new objects without using the new operator is becoming more common as an effort to curb errors caused by omitting new. JavaScript itself has several reference types with scope-safe constructors, such as Object, Array, RegExp, and Error.

##### Summary:
Scope-safe constructors are constructors that you can call with or without `new` to create a new object instance. This pattern takes advantage of the fact that `this` is an instance of the custom type as soon as the constructor begins to execute, which lets you alter the constructor’s behavior depending on whether or not you used the `new` operator.

----

See also: https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/the-principles-of/9781457185304/ch06.html#module_pattern