To say that Scrum and XP (eXtreme Programming) can be fruitfully combined is not really a controversial statement.
Scrum focuses on management and organization practices while XP focuses mostly on actual programming practices. That’s why they work well together – they address different areas and complement each other.
#### Pair programming
- Pair programming does improve code quality.
- Pair programming does improve team focus (for example, when the guy behind you says “Hey, is that stuff really necessary for this sprint?”).
- Surprisingly, many developers that are strongly against pair programming actually haven’t tried it, and quickly learn to like it once they do try it.
- Pair programming is exhausting and should not be done all day.
- Shifting pairs frequently is good.
- Pair programming does improve knowledge spread within the group. Surprisingly fast, too.
- Some people just aren’t comfortable with pair programming. Don’t throw out an excellent programmer just because he isn’t comfortable with pair programming 
- Code review is an OK alternative to pair programming.
- The “navigator” (the guy not using the keyboard) should have a computer of his own, as well. Not for development, but for doing little spikes when necessary, browsing documentation when the “driver” (the guy at the keyboard) gets stuck, etc.
- Don’t force pair programming upon people. Encourage people and provide the right tools but let them experiment with it at their own pace.
#### Test-driven development (TDD)
TDD is a pretty niche technique that very few people have the patience to master
Test-driven development means that you write an automated test, then you write just enough code to make that one test pass, then you refactor the code primarily to improve readability and remove duplication. Rinse and repeat.
Some reflections on test-driven development:
- TDD is hard. It takes a while for a programmer to get it. In fact, in many cases, it doesn’t really matter how much you teach and coach and demonstrate – in many cases, the only way for a programmer to get it is to have him pair-program with somebody else who is good at TDD. Once a programmer does get it, however, he will usually be severely infected and will never want to work in any other way.
- TDD has a profoundly positive effect on system design.
- It takes time to get TDD up and running effectively in a new product, especially black-box integration tests, but the return on investment is fast.
- Make sure you invest the time necessary to make it easy to write tests. This means getting the right tools, educating people, providing the right utility classes or base classes, etc.

Since TDD is so hard, don’t try to force it on people, instead I coach these principles:
1. Make sure each key feature has at least one end-to-end acceptance test, interacting through the GUI or just behind it.
2. Make sure any complex or business-critical code is covered by unit tests.
3. This will leave some code uncovered. That’s fine. But be aware of which code isn’t covered; make sure it’s a deliberate tradeoff rather than just neglect.
4. Write the tests as you go, don’t save them for later (you’ll be just as busy later as you are now).

>  That seems to give enough sustainability without requiring the hardcoreness of full TDD. Test coverage usually ends up around 70%, because of the law of diminishing returns. In short, test automation is crucial, but TDD is optional.
>  This makes for extremely fast develop-build-test cycles. This also acts as a safety net, giving the developers confidence enough to refactor often, which means the design stays clean and simple even as the system grows.

#### TDD on new code
We do TDD for all new development, even if that means initial project setup takes longer (since we need more tools and support for test harnesses etc.). That’s a bit of a no-brainer; the benefits are so great that there really is no excuse not to do TDD.
#### TDD on old code
Never got around to writing that.... There’s no lack of TDD books though! And a great one about legacy code called Working Effectively with Legacy Code, by Michael Feathers, a real classic. I’ve also written some articles on technical debt, check my blog.
    http://blog.crisp.se/tag/technical-debt

We spent quite a lot of time trying to automate integration testing in one of our more complex systems, a codebase that had been around for a while and was in a severely messed-up state and completely devoid of tests.
For every release of the system, we had a team of dedicated testers who would perform a whole bunch of complex regression and performance tests. The regression tests were mostly manual work. This significantly slowed down our development and release cycle. Our goal was to automate these tests. After banging our heads against the wall for a few months, however, we hadn’t really gotten that much closer.
After that, we switched approach. We conceded to the fact that we were stuck with manual regression testing, and instead starting asking ourselves “How can we make the manual testing process less time consuming?” This was a gaming system, and we realized that a lot of the test team’s time was spent doing quite trivial setup tasks, such as browsing around in the back office to set up tournaments for testing purposes, or waiting around for a scheduled tournament to start. 
So we created utilities for that. Small, easily accessible shortcuts and scripts that did all the grunt work and let the testers focus on the actual testing. 
That effort really paid off! In fact, that is probably what we should have done from start. We were too eager to automate the testing that we forgot to do it step by step, where the first step was to build stuff that makes manual testing more efficient.
**Lesson learned:** If you are stuck with having to do manual regression testing, and want to automate this away, don’t (unless it is really easy). Instead, build stuff that makes manual regression testing easier. Then consider automating the actual testing.

#### Incremental design
This means keeping the design simple from start and continuously improving it, rather than trying to get it all right from the start and then freezing it.
We’re doing fairly well at this, i.e. we spend a reasonable amount of time refactoring and improving existing design, and we rarely spend time doing big up-front designs. Sometimes we screw up, of course – for example by allowing a shaky design to “dig in” too strongly so that refactoring becomes a big project. But all in all we’re fairly satisfied.
Continuous design improvement is mostly an automatic side effect of doing TDD.
#### Continuous integration
Our continuous-build server acts as the “judge” or reference point from which to determine the health of all our codebases. Every time someone checks something in to the version-control system, the continuous-build server will wake up, build everything from scratch on a shared server, and run all the tests. If anything goes wrong, it will send an email notifying the entire team that the build failed, including info about exactly which code change broke the build, link to test reports, etc.
Every night, the continuous-build server will rebuild the product from scratch and publish binaries (ears, wars, etc.), documentation, test reports, test-coverage reports, dependency reports, etc. to our internal documentation portal. Some products will also be automatically deployed to a test environment.
Setting this up was a lot of work, but worth every minute.

> If you take this just a bit further, you get continuous delivery. Every commit is a release candidate, and releasing is a single-click operation. I see more and more teams do this, and I do it for all my personal projects. It’s amazingly effective and cool! I suggest you read (or at least browse) the book **Continuous Delivery**. Setting it up is a lot of work, but definitely worth doing at the beginning of any new product. Pays off almost immediately. And there’s great tool support nowadays.

#### Collective code ownership
We encourage collective code ownership but not all teams have adopted this yet. We’ve found that pair programming with frequent rotation of pairs automatically leads to a high level of collective code ownership. Teams with a high level of collective code ownership have proven to be very robust – for example, their sprint doesn’t die just because some key person is sick.

> Spotify (and many other fast-moving companies) have an “internal open source” model. All code lives in an internal GitHub and people can clone repos and issue pull requests just like with any public open-source project. Very convenient.

#### Informative workspace
All teams have access to whiteboards and empty wall space and make quite good use of this. In most rooms, you’ll find the walls plastered with all kinds of information about the product and project. The biggest problem is old junk accumulating on the walls – we might introduce a “**housekeeper**” role in each team.

We encourage the use of task boards, but not all teams have adopted this yet. See pg. 55 “How we arrange the team room”.

**Coding standard**
Lately, we’ve started defining a coding standard. Very useful, wish we had done it earlier. It takes almost no time at all, just start simple and let it grow. Only write down stuff that isn’t obvious to everyone and link to existing material whenever possible.
Most programmers have their own distinct coding style. Little details like how they handle exceptions, how they comment code, when they return null, etc. In some cases, the difference doesn’t matter; in other cases it can lead to a severely inconsistent system design and hard-to-read code. A code standard is very useful here, as long as you focus on the stuff that matters.

Here are some examples from our code standard:
You may break any of these rules, but make sure there is a good reason and document it.
Never, ever, ever catch exceptions without logging the stack trace or re- throwing. log.debug() is fine, just don’t lose that stack trace.
Use setter-based dependency injection to decouple classes from each other (except of course when tight coupling is desirable).
Avoid abbreviations. Well-known abbreviations such as DAO are fine.
Methods that return Collections or arrays should not return null. Return empty collections and arrays instead of null.

> Code standards and style guides are great. But there’s no need to reinvent the wheel – you can copy this one from my friend Google: https://google.github.io/styleguide/
#### Sustainable pace/energized work
Reducing the work hours was by no means the only aspect that led to the improvement, but we’re all convinced it had a large part in it.
> In software development (and any other complex, creative work), there’s very little correlation between hours spent and value delivered. What counts is focused, motivated hours. Most of us have experienced the sensation of coming in on a Saturday morning and working in peace and quiet for a couple of hours, and getting like a whole week of work done in that time! That’s what I mean by a focused, motivated hour. So don’t force people to work overtime, except in the rare exceptional case where it’s really needed for a short period of time. Plus, burning people out is Evil.