In this final chapter, I will show you our Scrum-master “checklist”, listing the most common administrative routines of our Scrum masters. Stuff that is easy to forget. We skip the obvious things such as “remove impediments from the team”.

#### Beginning of sprint
- After the sprint planning meeting, create a sprint info page.
- Add a link to your page from the dashboard on the wiki.
- Print the page and put it on the wall where people pass by your team.
- Send an email to everyone announcing that a new sprint is started. Include the sprint goal and a link to the sprint info page.
- Update the sprint statistics document. Add your estimated velocity, team size, sprint length, etc.

#### Every day
- Make sure the daily scrum meeting starts and ends on time.
- Make sure stories are added/removed from the sprint backlog as necessary to keep the sprint on schedule.
- Make sure the product owner is notified of these changes.
- Make sure the sprint backlog and burn down are kept up to date by the team.
- Make sure problems/impediments are solved or reported to product owner and/or chief of development.

#### End of sprint
- Do an open sprint demo.
- Everyone should be notified about the demo a day or two before.
- Do a sprint retrospective with the whole team and product owner. Invite the chief of development as well, so he can help spread the lessons learned.
- Update the sprint statistics document. Add the actual velocity and key points from the retrospective.

> Nice little checklist. Although over time, as Scrum master, try to make yourself redundant. Coach the team to do these things without you. Even if you don’t succeed in making yourself redundant, the very act of trying will lead you to do Good Things. Some Scrum masters end up in a role more like Scrum admin or Scrum slave because they are so keen on pleasing the team. If the team relies too much on you, then you are effectively hindering their ability to self-organize. In the beginning, that may be fine if the team is new to Scrum and needs your help. But over time, you should slowly back out from admin stuff and give the team more and more responsibility. That saves time for you to chase impediments, or do non-Scrum-master stuff like coding, testing, etc.

