Daily scrum is really important! It’s the point where most synchronization happens and where the team raises important impediments. Nevertheless, if done badly they can be ready boring – a bunch of people rambling on and nobody really listening.

The Scrum Guide recently updated the three questions to counter this:
- What did I do yesterday that helped our team meet the sprint goal?
- What will I do today to help our team meet the sprint goal?
- Do I see any impediments that prevent me or our team from meeting the sprint goal?

> Notice the focus on the sprint goal, the team’s shared high-level purpose! 
> Or perhaps ask “What’s the best ‘today’ we can have?” followed by open discussion. Whatever you do, don’t let daily scrums stay boring. Keep experimenting!

#### How we update the task board
We normally update the task board during the daily scrum. As each person describes what he did yesterday and will do today.
Some teams have a policy that each person should update the task board before each meeting. That works fine as well. Just decide on a policy and stick to it.

> Many teams spend an inordinate amount of time updating numbers on sticky notes during the daily scrum. Waste! The purpose of the daily scrum is to get synchronized, so I usually find it best to update the board “in real time” (i.e. during the work day as stuff happens) and skip task estimates entirely. That way the daily scrum is used to actually communicate rather than administrate.

#### Dealing with “I don’t know what to do today”

The “I don’t know what to do today” problem is typical for teams that are new to Scrum, and are used to having other people decide things for them. As they get more experienced with self-organization, the problem disappears. People learn to figure out what to do. So if you are a Scrum master and you find yourself resorting to the above tricks too often, you should consider taking a step back. Despite your helpful intention, you may be the team’s biggest impediment, stopping them from learning how to self-organize!



