We always want to move on to the next thing. Ironically, the more stressed you are, the more likely you are to want to skip the retrospective. But the more stressed you are, the more badly you need the retrospective! Kind of like “I’m in such a hurry to chop down trees, I don’t have time to stop and sharpen my saw!” So a Scrum master should really insist on doing retrospectives! They don’t need to take so long though. For two-week sprints, time-box the retrospective to one hour. But do a longer (half-day or full-day) retrospective every couple of months so you can deal with the thornier issues.
In fact, I’d say the retrospective is the second-most-important event in Scrum (the first being the sprint planning meeting) because this is your best chance to improve!
Without retrospectives you will find that the team keeps making the same mistakes over and over again.

#### How we organize retrospectives
The general format varies a bit, but usually we do it something like this:
- We allocate one to three hours depending on how much discussion is anticipated.
- Participants: the product owner, the whole team, and myself.
- We move off to a closed room, a cozy sofa corner, the rooftop patio, or some place like that. As long as we can have undisturbed discussion.
- We usually don’t do retrospectives in the team room, since people’s attentions will tend to wander.
- Somebody is designated as secretary.
- The Scrum master shows the sprint backlog and, with help from the team, summarizes the sprint. Important events and decisions, etc.
- We do “the rounds”. Each person gets a chance to say, without being interrupted, what they thought was good, what they think could have been better, and what they would like to do differently next sprint.
- We look at the estimated vs. actual velocity. If there is a big difference, we try to analyze why.
- When time is almost up, the Scrum master tries to summarize concrete suggestions about what we can do better next sprint

Our retrospectives are generally not too structured. The underlying theme is always the same though: “What can we do better next sprint?”

- **Good**: If we could redo the same sprint again, we would do these things the same way.
- **Could have done better**: If we could redo the same sprint again, we would do these things differently.
- **Improvements**: Concrete ideas about how we could improve in the future.

There are lots of fancy ways to do retrospectives. Vary the format, so the meeting doesn’t get stale. You’ll find lots of ideas in the book Agile Retrospectives. Retromat, a random retrospective generator, is fun, too
However, I notice that I keep coming back to the simple format described above. It works for the majority of cases. Or even simpler, take a 20-minute coffee break with two discussion topics: “What to keep” and “What to change”. A bit shallow, but better than nothing!
#### Spreading lessons learned between teams
Invite the sales manager to a meeting, learn about their needs, and discuss possible solutions together! A sprint retrospective is not only about how this one team can do a better job during next sprint; it has wider implications than that.
Our strategy for handling that is very simple. One person (in this case, me) attends all sprint retrospectives and acts as the knowledge bridge. Quite informal.

Important rules for the “knowledge bridge” person:
- He should be a good listener.
- If the retrospective is too silent, he should be prepared to ask simple but well-aimed questions that stimulate discussion within the group. For example, “If you could rewind time and redo this same sprint from day one, what would you do differently?”
- He should be willing to spend time visiting all retrospectives for all teams.
- He should be in some kind of position of authority, so he can act upon improvement suggestions that are outside the team’s control.

> Trading facilitators is a nice pattern. Like “I’ll facilitate for your team retrospective if you facilitate for mine.” Makes for simple two-way knowledge spread, and also allows you as Scrum master to fully participate in your team’s retrospective (rather than facilitate).
#### To change or not to change
We’ve found that, in many cases, just identifying a problem clearly is enough for it to solve itself automatically next sprint. Especially if you post the sprint retrospective on the wall in the team room (which we always forget to do – shame on us!).
Every change you introduce has some kind of cost so, before introducing changes, consider doing nothing at all and hoping that the problem will disappear (or become smaller) automatically.

> If you introduce a new change every time someone complains about something, people may become reluctant to reveal minor problem areas, which would be terrible.

#### Examples of things that may come up during retrospectives
Here are some examples of typical things that come up during sprint planning, and typical actions.

**“We should have spent more time breaking down stories into sub-items and tasks”**
This is quite common. Every day at the daily scrum, team members find themselves saying “I don’t really know what to do today.” So after each daily scrum, you spend time finding concrete tasks. Usually more effective to do that up front.
**Typical actions:** None. The team will probably sort this out themselves during next sprint planning. If this happens repeatedly, increase the sprint-planning time-box.

**“Too many external disturbances”**
**Typical actions:**
- Ask the team to reduce their focus factor next sprint, so that they have a more realistic plan
- Ask the team to record disturbances better next sprint. Who disturbed, how long it took. Will make it easier to solve the problem later.
- Ask the team to try to funnel all disturbances to the Scrum master or product owner
- Ask the team to designate one person as “goalkeeper”. All disturbances are routed to him, so that the rest of the team can focus. Could be the Scrum master or a rotating position.

> The rotating goalkeeper pattern is extremely common and usually works well. Try it!

**“We overcommitted and only got half of the stuff done”**
**Typical actions:** None. The team will probably not overcommit next sprint. Or at least not overcommit as badly.

> By the way, as of 2014, the term “sprint commitment” is gone entirely from the Scrum Guide. Instead, it’s been renamed “sprint forecast”. Much better! The word “commitment” has caused so much misunderstanding. Many teams thought the sprint plan was some kind of a promise (a bit silly, considering that one of the four key values in agile is “responding to change over following a plan”). The sprint plan is not a commitment, it’s a forecast and a hypothesis – “This is how we think we best can reach the sprint goal.”
> Nevertheless, it still kind of sucks to consistently deliver less than forecasted. If that is a problem, start strictly applying yesterday’s weather, and pull in only as many story points as you got done last sprint (or the average of the last three sprints if you want to be fancy). This simple and powerful trick usually makes the problem just melt away, as your velocity becomes self-adjusting.

**“Our office environment is too noisy and messy”**
**Typical actions:** 
- Try to create a better environment, or move the team offsite. Rent a hotel room. Whatever. See pg. 55 “How we arrange the team room”).
- If not possible, tell the team to decrease their focus factor next sprint, and to clearly state that this is because of the noisy and messy environment. Hopefully, this will cause the product owner to start pestering upper management about this.

