Returning promises from fulfillment or rejection handlers doesn’t change when the promise executors are executed. 
The first defined promise will run its executor first; 
then the second promise executor will run, and so on. 
Returning promises simply allows you to define additional responses to the promise results. 
You defer the execution of fulfillment handlers by creating a new promise within a fulfillment handler. For example:

```js
const p1= Promise.resolve(42); 

p1.then(value=>{
console.log(value); // 42
// create a new promise
const p2 = new Promise((resolve, reject) => { 
	setTimeout(() => {
		resolve(43);
	}, 2500);
});

return p2; 
}).then(value=>{
    console.log(value);
// 43
});
```

In this example, a new promise is created within the fulfillment handler for p1. That means the second fulfillment handler won’t execute until after p2 is fulfilled. The executor for p2 is delayed by 2500 milliseconds using setTimeout(), but more realistically you might make a network or file system request. This pattern is useful when you want to wait until a previous promise has been settled before starting a new asynchronous operation.


### Summary
Multiple promises can be chained together in a variety of ways to pass information between them. Each call to then(), catch(), and finally() creates and returns a new promise that is resolved when the preceding promise is settled. If the promise handler returns a value, then that value becomes the value of the newly created promise from then() and catch() (finally() ignores this value); if the promise handler throws an error, then the error is caught and the returned newly created promise is rejected using that error as the reason.

When one promise is rejected in a chain, the promises created from other chained handlers are also rejected until the end of the chain is reached. Knowing this, it’s recommended to attach a rejection handler at the end of each promise chain to ensure that errors are handled correctly. Failing to catch a promise rejection will result in a message being output to the console, an error being thrown, or both (depending on the runtime environment).

